# Project-VPS

### About this project
The purpose for this personal project was educational in nature and done as a means to gain experience in setting up and configuring a Virtual Private Server (VPS) for my own personal use as opposed to relying upon an established VPN service where data privacy may still be a concern. This guide will describe the steps necessary to create your own variation of a VPS that is suited to your own individual needs should you also feel that a VPN service is not what you are after.

### Why the VPS?
It is quite simple to sign up for an annually paid VPN, especially with their ease of use thanks to a very intuitive GUI. An issue that I had however was the frequently employed marketing techniques used by many leading VPN companies that I can only describe as "gimmicky" at best. These included claims such as your ISP constantly spying on you, ISP's selling your data, to my favourite which is that they employ "military grade encryption." The latter claim strikes a particular nerve with me, as a military veterna myself, "military grade" to me translates normally as "cheapest cost for the minimmal functioning standard" - certainly not anything synonymous with "high-quality". Following on the heels of that dubious claim, I couldn't help but wonder that if ISP's were in fact selling my data behind my back - what truly prevents a VPN service from doing the same? VPN companies are fond of insisting that they cannot track what we do, however there is no way to know this for certain. Furthermore, there are examples of such companies acting in less than forthright manners with regards to personal data (take for example, the Nord VPN hack in 2016, which they admited to its users only a few years after the fact).

The truth is, these are nothing but promises made by companies to its users, with really nothing in particular holding them to their word. My personal conclusion was a simple, logical one - The only way to be as sure as possible would be to do it yourself, and thus I endeavoured to do so (and hopefully, so will others).
